---
toc: true
layout: post
comments: true
description: These are my 5.6 notes
categories: [APCSP]
title: 5.6 Notes - Safe Computing 
---

Digital rights: terms and conditions are part of them

Safe computing: cookies being stolen, stolen fishing attacks
## Hacks
1. The most common PII are our names, github usernames, and information that we put in our projects (such as nutrition, BMI, and workouts).
2. I am usually nervous sending my own information out, especially to social media. I feel that social media is bad for my brain because I am afraid of texting on social media. I feel that I am texting a stranger.
3. Good passwords:
    - An English uppercase character (A-Z)
    - An English lowercase character (a-z)
    - A number (0-9) and/or symbol (such as !, #, or %)
    - Ten or more characters total
   Bad passwords:
    - 123456
    - 123456789
    - Qwerty
    - Password
    - 12345
    - 12345678
    - 111111
    - 1234567
   Authentication steps:
    - The user attempts to access an application.
    - The user is redirected to the IdP to receive a verification code
    - The user gives consent for the application to access
      information from the idP 
    - The user submits the verification code to the application
4. Symmetric encryption: a private key is used to encrypt
   and decrypt an encrypted email 
   Asymmetric encryption: the public key of the recipient is used to encrypt the message
5. Encryption we used in AWS deployment - Asymmetric encryption
   We had to generate the public and secret keys and then add them to our repositories.
6. Last trimester right before night at the muesuem, I tried to make some last-minute changes to our project because I was really nervous. But then the team had a lot of problems. We could not access our own flask website. The error is related to the debug I made. I made this error happen, meaning I made those last-minute changes to or project. One of the twins (Ava or Alexa) told me that if I want to make any changes to our project, I have to ask the team first. In the upcoming night at the muesuem, I am going to stay calm and do my best to show a lot of people what we got in our project.